1.  <span>[Blue Planet](index.html)</span>

<span id="title-text"> Blue Planet : Usability Myths (RP) </span>
=================================================================

Created by <span class="author"> Tom D'Ippolito</span>, last modified on Jan 04, 2016

Myth \#1:        Usability is just common sense
===============================================

Well designed web sites and products look simple and are easy to use. The better designed a product or web site is, the more the uninitiated will view the result as "obvious" and just a matter of common sense. They don’t comprehend the effort; expertise and process that was necessary to make the user interface feel natural and look right.

Myth \#2:        All you need to do is think like a user
========================================================

A common statement heard from developers and programmers. Unfortunately, you must be a user to think like a user. Most users will bring a different context and a different set of experiences to their interpretation and understanding of a product than a developer or even a usability expert will. You can’t know what a user thinks like if you don’t study them. 

Myth \#3:        Usability is obtained through better graphic design
====================================================================

Many managers never use the products they purchase or develop. They see demos instead of having hands on experience. What they like or don't like is largely based on visual impressions. The focus on the graphic appearance rather than the interaction leads them to a belief that better graphic design will mean better usability.

Myth \#4:        Usability is just a matter of following design guidelines
==========================================================================

Following good design guidelines is often the smart thing to do. However, most design guidelines are general and vague. They can also be contradictory. There is plenty of room for bad designs that still meet all the design guidelines. Guidelines must be reinforced with user studies and good usability engineering process.

Myth \#5:        Usability is designing for the typical user
============================================================

There is no such thing as a typical user. Most user populations are diverse and include a range of people with differing strengths, experiences, knowledge and skills. Designing for the typical user may make a site or product unusable for a large number of users who are not typical. It will be the atypical users who make most of the calls for customer service.

Myth \#6:        The system is inherently usable because it was designed by users
=================================================================================

Having users participate in the specification and design of a system is not enough. Many users don’t recognize the difference between a wish list and a requirement. Suggested UI improvements are made without thought of secondary consequences. User participation needs to be managed by someone with participatory design experience and skills.

Myth \#7:        Usability testing the product at the end of development is sufficient
======================================================================================

Leaving usability to a test at the end is the height of irresponsible optimism. Usually, the most serious usability issues are embedded in the product architecture. Finding and fixing them must be done early in the project.

Myth \#8:        Usability engineering will add to development time and cost
============================================================================

Approximately 50% of the average software project cost and time is spent defining and resolving user interaction issues and implementing the user interface. Correcting mistakes made in the original design ends up taking, even more time. Remember, code changes at the end of product development are 4 to 10 times the cost of an early change. Up-front usability engineering saves time and money.

Document generated by Confluence on Feb 25, 2016 11:36

[Atlassian](http://www.atlassian.com/)


