1.  <span>[Blue Planet](index.html)</span>

<span id="title-text"> Blue Planet : Collapsible sections (VI) </span>
======================================================================

Created by <span class="author"> Brian Choi</span>, last modified by <span class="editor"> Christiane Campbell</span> on Mar 04, 2016

Description
-----------

Collapsible sections group related content in forms and content canvases.  Users can manually collapse them to help manage what is visible in a canvas' visual real estate.

Two forms of collapsible section components exist:

-   **2-column:** section title is to the left of the contents (used in forms, parameter listings)
-   **single-column:** section title is above the contents

<span style="color: rgb(255,0,255);">insert 2 pictures:</span>

-   <span style="color: rgb(255,0,255);">2-column: expanded (default) with title, icon for affordance, and show collapsed</span>
-   <span style="color: rgb(255,0,255);">single-column: expanded (default) with title, icon for affordance, and show collapsed</span>

Behaviors
---------

-   All collapsible sections have a title to explain the contents of the section
-   When a section is collapsed, 
    -   display the section's title immediately next to the expand/collapse icon.  Collapse the section to the size of the title (which may wrap if the title is long, especially in the 2-column component)
    -   hide the contents of the section, but you may wish to display additional summary information/instruction text
-   Collapsing or expanding one of these sections has no influence on other collapsible sections in the canvas. In other words, m<span>ultiple can be expanded at once</span>

Usage guidelines
----------------

Use short titles to avoid wrapping as much as possible.

Generally, collapsible sections should be expanded by default, unless the content relies on previous user entries.  For example, this may happen in a form.

In forms, if there are required fields within a collapsible section, use the "Required" marker to indicate this on the collapsible section itself (visible whether expanded or collapsed).

When these sections are collapsed, it is often useful to add summary information next to the title, or instruction text in a form, to help the user understand what's "hidden".

Visual specification
--------------------

<span style="color: rgb(255,0,255);">&lt;insert picture&gt;</span>

Document generated by Confluence on Mar 07, 2016 12:06

[Atlassian](http://www.atlassian.com/)


