1.  <span>[Blue Planet](index.html)</span>

<span id="title-text"> Blue Planet : Scrollbar - VI </span>
===========================================================

Created by <span class="author"> Brian Choi</span>, last modified by <span class="editor"> Christiane Campbell</span> on Mar 04, 2016

Description
-----------

When content can't fit inside a scrollable canvas, a scrollbar allows users to change the content of the visible canvas by moving content up/down or side-to-side.

<span style="color: rgb(255,0,255);">&lt;picture: vertical scrollbar&gt;</span>

Behaviors
---------

-   Scrollbars **appear only when a user invokes a scroll gesture** (e.g. mouse middle button, scroll gesture on touchpad or touch device, arrow keys)
-   Users can grab the scroll bar and drag it to move the content
-   Clicking/tapping further in the scroll area shifts the content to that relative area of the overall canvas (non-contiguous scrolling)
-   Scroll areas span the full length of the canvas
-   <span style="line-height: 1.42857;">The length of the scroll bar is proportional to the visible content height relative to the entire height of the canvas</span>

Usage guidelines
----------------

-   Scrollbars are only when the content does not fit the scrollable canvas.
-   Do not offer scrollbars if all the content of the scrollable canvas is visible.
-   A scrollable canvas should be designed for the content to shift vertically. Some canvases (especially zoomable graphics) may have content on all four sides of the visible area.  In these cases, use *panning* gestures to shift the content, rather than scrollbars.
-   <span style="line-height: 1.42857;">Avoid horizontal scrolling in your UI layouts. <a href="https://www.nngroup.com/articles/scrolling-and-scrollbars/" class="external-link">Users hate horizontal scrolling</a>.  Instead, design with a minimum screen size in mind.  If users reduce the size of their web browser below that threshold, the browser's scrollbars will be invoked.</span>

Visual specification
--------------------

<span style="color: rgb(255,0,255);">&lt;insert visual spec&gt;</span>

Document generated by Confluence on Mar 07, 2016 12:06

[Atlassian](http://www.atlassian.com/)


