1.  <span>[Blue Planet](index.html)</span>

<span id="title-text"> Blue Planet : Progress indicators - IP </span>
=====================================================================

Created by <span class="author"> Christiane Campbell</span>, last modified by <span class="editor"> Katherine Parmeson</span> on Mar 04, 2016

Description
-----------

<span class="s1">This is used to show the user when an action they initiated is in progress. It will continue as long as the process is doing something. </span>

 

<span class="confluence-embedded-file-wrapper">$assets/images/171226222/171241971.gif" class="confluence-embedded-image" /></span>

<span style="font-size: 20.0px;">Behaviors</span>

<span style="color: rgb(0,0,0);">A progress indicator should be used on the area or object where the processing was initiated from. It should only take up the whole page if it requires whole page re-render. A progress indicator will be controlled by the application. A user will not interact with it. It will appear and disappear based on the processing life of an action initiated by the user. </span>

<span class="s1">Usage guidelines</span>
----------------------------------------

<span class="s1"><span style="color: rgb(0,0,0);">There are two types of progress indicators, looped and percentage complete.  These progress indicators should only be used on content that will take more than 2 seconds to complete, showing it for a shorter time can appear as a flash which will increase mental strain. </span></span>

**Looped indicators** should be used when it takes an Indeterminate amount of time to complete a process. 

<span class="s1">**Percentage complete** indicators will be used when some amount of information about where a user is in the whole process is known. There are different forms of a percentage complete indicator based on the type of data known. For example, how many files left to process, which step in a 5 step process is active...</span>

<span class="s1">Visual specification</span>
--------------------------------------------

 

<span class="confluence-embedded-file-wrapper"><a href="/download/attachments/171226222/I_loading_ring.svg?version=1&amp;modificationDate=1452024801167&amp;api=v2" class="confluence-embedded-file">$assets/images/resources/com.atlassian.confluence.plugins.confluence-view-file-macro:view-file-macro-resources/images/placeholder-medium-file.png" height="250" /><span class="title">I_loading_ring.svg</span></a></span>

 

Determinate indicators
======================

Attachments:
------------

$assets/images/icons/bullet_blue.gif" width="8" height="8" /> [I\_loading\_ring.svg](attachments/171226222/171241049.svg) (image/svg+xml)
$assets/images/icons/bullet_blue.gif" width="8" height="8" /> [image2016-1-6 13:47:26.png](attachments/171226222/171241945.png) (image/png)
$assets/images/icons/bullet_blue.gif" width="8" height="8" /> [image2016-1-6 13:47:47.png](attachments/171226222/171241947.png) (image/png)
$assets/images/icons/bullet_blue.gif" width="8" height="8" /> [ring.gif](attachments/171226222/171241971.gif) (image/gif)

Document generated by Confluence on Mar 07, 2016 12:06

[Atlassian](http://www.atlassian.com/)


