1.  <span>[Blue Planet](index.html)</span>

<span id="title-text"> Blue Planet : Transient Messages - IP </span>
====================================================================

Created by <span class="author"> Philippe Savignac</span>, last modified by <span class="editor"> Katherine Parmeson</span> on Mar 04, 2016

Description
-----------

**Transient messages** will provide minimally invasive messages to a user. These message can remain open for 5 seconds or more, or be closed by the user. The text of the message may provide success/failure information or instructional information.

Behaviors
---------

-   A **transient message** will animate by sliding down from the bottom of the app bar. 
-   Messages that indicate a successful state will close on their own after 5 seconds if the user has not already closed them.
-   Messages that indicate a failure state will remain open until the user manually closes them.
-   Messages that provide instructional information will remain open while the user is in that state, or until the user closes them.
-   **Transient messages **can continue onto 2 lines, but it is important that the text be as succinct as possible.
-   Can contain a link to more detail.
-   Will appear in the middle of the screen, just below the app bar.

Usage guidelines
----------------

There are three use cases for **transient messages**.

1.  In the situation of a failure when the user may not receive, or may easily miss an indication through the interface.
2.  In the list browser when a user edits a record. Depending on the level of visible detail, the user may not see the changed attribute get updated.
3.  When instructional information is presented to the user, either indicating a special mode they may be in or next steps they can take.

Visual specification
--------------------

 

 

Visual proposals: 

**Concept A**

<span class="confluence-embedded-file-wrapper">$assets/images/175022523/175026683.png" class="confluence-embedded-image" /></span><span class="confluence-embedded-file-wrapper confluence-embedded-manual-size">$assets/images/175022523/175026685.png" class="confluence-embedded-image" width="850" /></span>

 

**Concept B**

 

<span class="confluence-embedded-file-wrapper confluence-embedded-manual-size">$assets/images/175022523/175026684.png" class="confluence-embedded-image" width="850" /></span>

 

**<span class="inline-comment-marker" data-ref="3d26c109-ccf9-45e8-ac44-ba2229eca6e5">Concept C</span>**

**
**

<span class="confluence-embedded-file-wrapper confluence-embedded-manual-size">$assets/images/175022523/175026682.png" class="confluence-embedded-image" width="850" /></span>

**Concept D**

**
**

<span class="confluence-embedded-file-wrapper confluence-embedded-manual-size">$assets/images/175022523/175026686.png" class="confluence-embedded-image" width="850" /></span>

 

**Concept E**

**
**

<span class="confluence-embedded-file-wrapper confluence-embedded-manual-size">$assets/images/175022523/175026688.png" class="confluence-embedded-image" width="850" /></span>

**Concept F**

 

<span class="confluence-embedded-file-wrapper confluence-embedded-manual-size">$assets/images/175022523/175026687.png" class="confluence-embedded-image" width="850" /></span>

Attachments:
------------

$assets/images/icons/bullet_blue.gif" width="8" height="8" /> [Notification-07.png](attachments/175022523/175026682.png) (image/png)
$assets/images/icons/bullet_blue.gif" width="8" height="8" /> [Notification-08.png](attachments/175022523/175026683.png) (image/png)
$assets/images/icons/bullet_blue.gif" width="8" height="8" /> [Notification-06.png](attachments/175022523/175026684.png) (image/png)
$assets/images/icons/bullet_blue.gif" width="8" height="8" /> [Notification-05.png](attachments/175022523/175026685.png) (image/png)
$assets/images/icons/bullet_blue.gif" width="8" height="8" /> [Notification-04.png](attachments/175022523/175026686.png) (image/png)
$assets/images/icons/bullet_blue.gif" width="8" height="8" /> [Notification-02.png](attachments/175022523/175026687.png) (image/png)
$assets/images/icons/bullet_blue.gif" width="8" height="8" /> [Notification-01.png](attachments/175022523/175026688.png) (image/png)

Document generated by Confluence on Mar 07, 2016 12:06

[Atlassian](http://www.atlassian.com/)


